Luna was planning the revolution long before she became Nightmare Moon the first time. She noticed the tyranny of Celestia long before then. So she hatched a plan to rebel. She would distract Celestia by becoming Nightmare Moon
while the (old) Lunar Republic would slowly put into place its pawns to overthrow the government and free Equestria from Celestia's tyranny. The whole "Eternal Night" thing was just a ruse, part of the distraction. Luna understood perfectly
that everyone needs day as much as they need night. Something happened though, Celestia caught on and dealt with the Lunar Republic and banished Luna to the moon. The key here being that Celestia herself didn't use the Elements of Harmony, because she
had no harmony of her own. She found six ponies who had the Elements within them (Just like our Mane 6) and convinced them to use the Elements (Because she can't use them herself) then took the credit for the deed after the 6 mysteriously disappeared.
(Maybe they'll show up too?) Somehow, this usage of it worked and banished Luna.

During her banishment, Luna's judgment got clouded and she was filled with rage. When she returned, she couldn't stop herself from becoming Nightmare Moon again and trying to bring Eternal Night again. The Elements of Harmony cleansed Luna of this rage
but did not remove her desire for revolution. She began the process of setting up a New Lunar Republic. The fact that Celestia thinks the Elements would "cure" Luna's desire for freedom shows just how insane she is. She really thinks she's in the right.
Things like Luna's visit to Ponyville were her reconniassance and her setting up the pieces there. The moment that Luna sprang the trap and began the second Lunar Rebellion, things went more according to plan. The one exception being that Celestia un-
expectedly whisked off the Elements (The Mane 6 as well) and crygenically froze them. Then she hid them from Luna. The quick success of Luna's plan hinged on having the Mane 6 to help her with the Elements. This time though she didn't utterly fail,
instead the war dragged on for centuries and cost many lives. It carried over into space once Equestria discovered space flight. Once ponies had taken to space travel, Celestia had no need for their home planet anymore, so she made it an uninhabitable wasteland.

Twilight still finds all of this hard to believe. She wants to hear Celestia's side of the story before acting.
Applejack has a loyalty to Celestia and trusts her not to do all the horrible things she did.
Fluttershy sympathizes with Luna and immediately sides with her.
Rainbow Dash gets on the hype train and decides that Celestia is evil (Which she knew all along of course...) and sides with Luna.
Rarity can't really decide whether she trusts Luna more than she hates what Celestia allegedly did. She's more neutral. Inclined to believe Luna.
Pinkie Pie at first sides with Luna, but readily switches sides as plot twists occur. No real allegiance. Not quite neutral though.
 


Quotes: "I guess I finally got my Eternal Night, huh?" - Luna on being in the cold void of space
The Dark Side of the Sun