ATTENTION:
Report all bugs to svedgeburn@gmail.com. I'll try to get back to you ASAP.
This is an early pre-release version of For The Lunar Republic, I will not help you if you mess up your system somehow trying to use this. This game can and probably will change dramatically by the next release and the hopeful final release.
I AM accepting help in these areas:
    Spriting. I can do basic sprites, but I'm not good when it comes down to making the good stuff. Send me one of your sprites to show me what you can do in my email (listed elsewhere), and I'll consider using it and adding you to the "team."
    Music. I'm currently planning on using existing fan music, such as the song this game is titled after. I can always use more music though and remixes of existing themes are great too. Also, helping me loop songs like FTLR would be helpful.
    Writing. I'm a decent writer, but I've never written a story for a game and I'm not perfect. You will have lots of freedom with the story, there are just some boundaries of course.
    Cutscene Art. I can do a little art, but nothing that an epic story I'm imagining deserves. I can cover this on my own if I HAVE to, but I'd prefer better art than I can manage. That and art takes a long  time I could be using programming.
    Moral Support. This is more important than it sounds... Programming a game all on your own is harder than it might seem. I get discouraged sometimes. What can I say?
I am NOT accepting help in these areas:
    Programming. I can't work with another programmer. I simply can't and won't do it. I think I can cover everything needed.
    Beta/Alpha/Prerelease/any testing. DON'T ASK ME TO TEST. I don't need testers. And even if I did, I wouldn't use you. Testing will be in-team or with friends. There may be an svn or GitHub at one point where you could always download the latest version, but that's something else altogether.

This game requires Python 2.6 to be installed. It may work on 2.7 or even earlier versions, but it WILL NOT work on version 3.x. Python 2.6 is available at <python.org>.
It also requires you to install Pygame 1.9.1 or newer. You can get this from <pygame.org>. Pygame 1.9.1 is included but not sure to work.

Install:
There is no installation, simply run "main.py" (Or the shortcut). There is probably a compiled version of this available for your system, so that's a better idea unless you want to play around with the code. If it's not working for you and you think you have to install something,
you probably did something wrong. Make sure you have Python and pygame installed. If you run the file called "main.pyw," it will run the game without a command prompt. This is good for looks, but not good for debugging.

Default Controls:
The controls are user-defineable, but default to a set that I have deemed effective.
These are as follows:
    MOVEMENT:
        Use the W, A, S, and D keys to move around.
    FIRING:
        By default, the ship automatically fires as fast as it is allowed to. But you may be able to assign it to a key instead in a later version.
    MENUS:
        Honestly, I haven't decided yet. Right now, you can use the movement keys and the mouse for menus, but that could easily change later.