Made it possible to manually fire the ship instead of automatically. (Requested feature)
Fixed bug where pushing the back button from the level selection menu would put the ship selection menu into a strange state.
Added HUD.
Added regen rate stat. This determines how quickly the ship regenerates.
Gave enemies health bars.
Improved the way that images are handled by sprites. They are only loaded once per image and at the loading of a level.
Fixed background scrolling bug.
Added bosses. There's a warning string that flashes on screen when the boss is incoming that counts down to its arrival.
Gave bosses turrets that track the player. They don't fire yet (As of adding this line to the release notes.)
Put a boss health bar at the top of the screen.
Completed basic implementation of bosses. As of this line there's still a bit of work to be done. Refine the hp bar, make it load its info from a file instead of being hard coded, etc.
Attempted to improve the way bullets move, but it doesn't seem to really have had any difference.
Added three types of turrets to bosses: Fixed, Tracking, and Lazer.
Consolidated menus. Added arcade menu that has default character and level selected. Saves four mouse clicks. Also removed the game mode select menu altogether and just put the game modes on the main menu.
Added the ability for ships to use a vector style instead of pixel art. This will become the standard in the future.
Implemented cutscenes. Only accessible through the story mode which is disabled unless you know the correct command argument.
Implemented dialog. Disabled just like cutscenes.
Brought the bitrates of the music files back down to sensible levels. Lowering the overall filesize. Sorry about that, that's what you get for using freeware audio converters.
Mostly re-implemented noscaling in fullscreen mode. It doesn't work ingame yet, but it seems to work perfectly in menus and most likely in cutscenes and dialog.
Implemented in-game dialog. There's a a placeholder right now before the boss. But I did it in such a way that it can go almost anyway you want it to.
Started adding other kinds of weapons. And the ability for ships to have more than one kind of weapon at once.
Made backgrounds work for dialog sequences. Also finished working on the cutscenes.